WS-413: Running Multiple Experiments (#12907)
bbc/simorgh: src/app/components/OptimizelyPageMetrics/README.md

> ## Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Optimizely Page Metrics
```

> OptimizelyPageMetrics is a React component that conditionally tracks Optimizely Page metrics such as page views, scroll depth, and page completion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`OptimizelyPageMetrics` is a React component that conditionally tracks Optimizely Page metrics such as page views, scroll depth, and page completion.
```

> OptimizelyPageMetrics is a React component that conditionally tracks Optimizely Page metrics such as page views, scroll depth, and page completion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OptimizelyPageMetrics is a React component that conditionally tracks metrics such as page views, scroll depth, and page completion.
```

This component ensures that tracking is only enabled for users who are part of specific Optimizely experiments, and only on supported page types.

> It does this by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `OptimizelyPageMetric` component:
```

> - Accesses the Optimizely client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Accesses the `Optimizely` client.
```

> - Uses RequestContext to determine the current page type (that OptimizelyPageMetrics was rendered on).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Uses `RequestContext` to determine the current page type (that the `OptimizelyPageMetrics` component is rendered on).
```

> - Finds experiments enabled on current page type in experimentsForPageMetrics array.

Reviewer: Should we consider adding a link to this file?
```suggestion
- Finds experiments enabled on the current page type in `experimentsForPageMetrics`.
```

- If there are enabled experiments and once Optimizely is ready:
  - Gets all Optimizely experiment decisions

>   - For each enabled experiment, go through Optimizely descisions and check if a user is in any variation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For each enabled experiment, loop through Optimizely decisions and check if a user is in any variation.
```

>   - If a user is in a variation, then we know to send Optimizely page metrics and we render the components. (Note, it doesn't matter which experiment or variation the user is in, since Optimizely is aware of this based on UserID)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If a user is in a variation, then send Optimizely page metrics and render the page metric components. (Note, it doesn't matter which experiment or variation the user is in, since Optimizely is aware of this based on UserID)
```

>   - If a user is not in a variation, then we return null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If a user is not in a variation, then return null - Optimizely will not send any metrics.
```

## Props

| Name              | type    | default | Description                         |
| ----------------- | ------- | ------- | ----------------------------------- |
| trackPageView     | boolean | false   | Enables tracking of page views.     |
| trackPageDepth    | boolean | false   | Enables tracking of scroll depth.   |
| trackPageComplete | boolean | false   | Enables tracking of page completes. |

> ## experimentsForPageMetrics Array

Reviewer: Let's provide a link to the file

This is configured so that all Page Metrics are collected for any experiment listed.

For example, say we have 4 experiments running that all want to collect Page Metrics:

- Experiment1: Article and Homepages
- Experiment2: Article and Homepages
- Experiment3: Article and Live pages
- Experiment4: Article pages

> The experimentsForPageMetrics array would look something like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `experimentsForPageMetrics` array would look something like:
```

```ts
[
    {
        pageType: ARTICLE_PAGE
        activeExperiments: [ Experiment1, Experiment2, Experiment3, Experiment4 ]
    },
    {
        pageType: HOME_PAGE
        activeExperiments: [ Experiment1, Experiment2 ]
    },
    {
        pageType: LIVE_PAGE
        activeExperiments: [ Experiment3 ]
    },
]
```

## How to use

You can use once on a page

```tsx
{
  <OptimizelyPageMetrics trackPageComplete trackPageView trackPageDepth />;
}
```

> Or multiple times to envoke different page metrics at different points of the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or multiple times to invoke different page metrics in different sections of the page
```

```tsx
{
<main>

>     // Main Content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {/* Track page completes but only within the main section of the page */}
```

    <OptimizelyPageMetrics trackPageComplete />

> </main>
> <OptimizelyPageMetrics trackPageView trackPageDepth />

Reviewer: Shall we add a comment?
```suggestion
</main>
{/* Track page views & scroll depth outside the main section of the page */}
<OptimizelyPageMetrics trackPageView trackPageDepth />
```
